---
layout: poet
title: 
---

<h2>In  Memoriam</h2>
<p> Michael Adams published his  first poem in a high school literary journal in 1966.<br />
He was the author of six  books of poetry and essays that are still in print, including <strong>If You  Can Still Dance With It(Turkey Buzzard Press, 2012) Steel Valley (Lummox Press,  2010), Whistleblowers (Turkey Buzzard Press 2009), Broken Hand</strong><em><strong> </strong></em><strong>Peak (Turkey Buzzard  Press, 2008) Underground</strong><em><strong> </strong></em><strong>(Longhand  Press, 2007) and Between Heaven and Earth (Elik Press, 2004). His most recent  manuscript, still untitled, will be published by LUMMOX Press in 2014 and will  consist of new poems written between 2010 and 2013. </strong></p>
<p><strong>Michael grew up in a blue-collar neighborhood in the heart of the Steel  Valley just south of Pittsburgh, PA, and at that time one of the most heavily  industrialized areas in the world. He has a Bachelor&rsquo;s degree in Anthropology  and a Master&rsquo;s degree in planning, both from the University of Pittsburgh.  Michael has been a steel worker, urban planner, mountaineering guide, teacher,  and natural resource manager. His diverse work experience and upbringing have  given him a lifelong passion for issues of social, economic, and environmental  justice and a love for the natural world.</strong></p>
<p><strong>He attended the Jack Kerouac School of Disembodied Poetics at Naropa  University in 1988-1989. Michael&rsquo;s poems, essays, and reviews have appeared in  numerous journals, magazines and anthologies, including <em>The Pedestal,  PoLarity, The Midwest Quarterly, Pilgrimage, Mad Blood, Hunger and Thirst, </em>and <em>Desert Shovel</em>. Michael was an accomplished musician and banjo player  who sometimes melded his poetry and music. He has performed on radio and  television across the country, either alone or as part of the poetry group <strong>The  Free Radical Railroad</strong>. He was the winner of the 2007 Mark Fischer  Poetry Prize.</strong></p>
<p><strong>Michael was very active in poetry and the arts, both locally and  regionally. He was the chair of the Lafayette, CO Cultural Arts Commission,  which has been instrumental in making the visual and literary arts accessible  and available to school children, local artists, the disadvantaged and the  community at large. He was a Guest Artist with <strong>Art From Ashes</strong>,  a Denver-based non-profit whose mission is to serve and empower struggling  youth.</strong></p>
<p><strong>In July of 2011 Michael was diagnosed with multiple myeloma, an  incurable cancer of the blood and bone marrow. He had struggled with the  disease for over two years but remained both physically active and active in  community affairs. </strong></p>