---
layout: poet
title: Joseph Mikula
removeMargin: false
---


<p>I&rsquo;m wandering through Saint Michael&rsquo;s Cemetery in Homeville,  PA.  My father&rsquo;s buried here, my  grandparents, and we&rsquo;ll lay our mother to rest here when her time comes.  It&rsquo;s a nice place – well-kept, green and  wooded. It&rsquo;s a beautiful spring day, the sky blue and not a cloud. I put new  flowers on the graves, then walk around the grounds.  These were people I knew as a child – tough  and strong.  Working-class Poles,  Slovaks, Ukranians. The men worked in the mills and factories, the women stayed  home to raise the kids and hold the household together.</p>
<p>Here&rsquo;s Joseph Mikula – 1910-1966.  I remember you, Joe. One day you were walking  around, gruff and loud, a real joker.   Getting ready for a fishing trip in a few days up to Pymatuming  Reservoir.  Then ... boom, on the ground,  heaving like a hooked fish on land, eyes bugged out, skin blue-gray, dead  before they got you to the hospital.  You  were looking forward to that trip – a little fishing, a lot of beer and booze  with the boys.  You were a lot more fun  than my own parents.  I&rsquo;d come by  Saturday mornings with the paper and you&rsquo;d be under the hood of one car or  another, take the paper from me, hands covered with grease.  How about a beer, you&rsquo;d say?  How old are you now?  Sixteen, huh?   Old enough for pussy, old enough for beer.  I&rsquo;d just turn red and look down at my feet.</p>
<p>I hear you stirring around down there.  Forty years gone and it still doesn&rsquo;t sit  well with you.  You were so full of  life  And you too, Mary – 1913-1996  --  beloved wife and mother.  They could have added long-suffering.  It was no secret he drank too much, though he  was a happy drunk, even the time he wrapped the car around the light pole up  the street. Mary, you lived a long life and all you want now is to rest, but he  won&rsquo;t let you.  Always on you, wasn&rsquo;t  he?  Mary, wherz ma goddamm boots?  Mary, wherz ma lunch, I&rsquo;m late fa work, fa  christsakes.</p>
<p>Five days a week, the same thing -- You hand him his black  steel lunch box; the screen door bangs as he heads out to his &rsquo;62 Chevy Impala  and the 4 to 12 shift at O.H. 5.  Roast  beef and American cheese on Jewish rye, a Vlasic pickle, an apple and two  Snicker&rsquo;s bars.  Every day for 30  years.  He grabs a coffee and glazed  donut in the mill cafeteria before the daily meeting for the afternoon crew and  reads his Post-Gazette while the super drones on about quotas and the problem  with the temperature gauges and the batches being too cold.  What&rsquo;s there to hear that he hasn&rsquo;t heard a  million times already?</p>
<p>Give it a rest, Joe.   O.H. 5 has been shut and gone for 20 years.  Most people around here wouldn&rsquo;t know an open  hearth from a fireplace.  Same with the  Big Shop, the Machine Shop,  the 160&rdquo;  Plate Mill.  All gone, Joe.  You should see the place now.  Stores and parking lots.  Townhouses along the river.  Can you imagine?  But it&rsquo;s not like what you&rsquo;re thinking, it&rsquo;s  real nice, no more dirt and noise.   These  townhouses are nothing like  the shacks that used to be down there, before they tore them down in the &lsquo;40s  to expand the mill.  Doctors and lawyers  live there now, folks with two dogs and no kids.  What the hell do they know about what went on  here, how goddamn great it was?  About  all that&rsquo;s left of the mill is the big plate press in the middle of a parking  lot.  Too big to move, so they put a  little sign up and called it historic.   Hey, Joe, there&rsquo;s a coffee shop where you can get a latte and a  chocolate croissant.   Know what a latte  is, Joe?  A croissant?  See what I mean.  It&rsquo;s not your world anymore; the kids are all  gone -- Baltimore, New York, Alaska.   From the looks of your grave I bet none of them ever visits with  flowers.<br />
<br />
You know what I&rsquo;m going to do now, Joe?  I&rsquo;m going to get away from all this sunlight  and fresh air, drive down the hill to Coral Lanes, sit with the cigarette smoke  and stale sweat-and-popcorn smell and listen to the balls roll down the  lanes.  And I&rsquo;ll have a beer or two,  Joe.  After all these years, just for  you.<br />
<em>from <strong>Steel  Valley</strong></em></p>